Well let's take a look at using the sculpting tools to give a little texture to the floor and other
objects in the scene.
And I'm just looking for a kind of texture like this and maybe rough up a few of the pieces like the
coffin and the stairs when you're doing sculpting you really need a pen and tablet.
I've got a away come tablet here with a pen.
It's not an expensive one.
It's a pretty small one it's in in to us.
But just the amount of control that you can get with a pen and tablet over a mouse is really useful.
I really recommend getting a pen and tablet I'll work on the floor.
First I'll select it and I'll isolate it with the division key.
Now if I go over to the modifiers panel here and click on Add modifier I can add a multi resolution
modifier.
Now this is similar to the subdivisions surface modifier in that it can smooth an object.
But the nice thing about this is that you have the ability to create multiple levels of subdivisions.
If I were to say add a subdivision here I could click add new level of subdivision if I click that if
I press the Z key and as I click subdivide you can see that it begins to subdivide the mesh more and
more.
But it's just a modifier it's it's previewing it's not actually applying that higher resolution to the
mesh quite yet.
If I hit the tab key you can see that we're still at the original subdivision level here in edit mode
but if we look at it in wireframe we can see all of the subdivided polygons there.
So with three sculped subdivisions I'll see what I can do with this.
Now the pre-view subdivisions is what you can see here in the viewport in Object mode.
The sculped subdivisions is what you can see over here in sculped mode if I click on object mode I can
change it to sculpt mode and then the render subdivisions is what you'll see when the scene is actually
rendered out.
Now that I've clicked on the sculped tool you can see that I've got my sculped tools panel over here
up at the top.
I've got a collection of Prussia's that I can use.
And generally speaking I begin with something like the sculped draw brush which is kind of the default
brush.
But you've got a lot of other options here like Clay strips and blob and grab and inflate.
These are all great options and we'll go through some of these as we sculpt the various parts of our
environment in addition to our brushes.
You've got a radius and strength slider here.
Let me open this panel just a little bit.
And what these control is the brush you can see the red circle here around my cursor.
The radius is the size of the brush and the strength is of course how strong the brush is on the object.
You can also change the radius and strength of the brush by pressing the F key for radius and then click.
Or you can press shift F to increase or decrease the strength.
There are a lot of settings in this panel.
Not all of which were going to go through at this point in time but another setting to look at is the
symmetry tool here.
Scroll down and we can see that we've got symmetry on and that will mirror what we do on one side of
the axis on to the other side.
So let's say I am going to make a stroke over here like this.
You can see that it also makes a stroke.
On the other side of the x axis.
So for this I don't think I want symmetry on so I'm going to turn that off.
I don't need that.
Another option is add and subtract.
If you look at the brush here when I draw here it adds or bulges out the mesh.
But you can also click subtract here and that will push it in an easier way to do that I think.
Let me just undo this is when it's on and just press the control button on the keyboard and then drag
a stroke and that will cut into the object.
So I'll undo those.
So as you've seen when we draw a stroke out here it's kind of blocky.
It's not real smooth.
We could increase our subdivisions here by just clicking on subdivide again and maybe one more time
till we're up to five in our sculped view.
So now let's try this.
That's pretty good.
We've got a pretty good relatively smooth stroke there.
I think that should probably do so to sculpt a sand kind of texture.
I'm going to press the division key to bring all my other objects back and what I want to do is just
barely bring up the floor.
So it looks as if sand has been blown around in here.
I'm going to increase the size of my brush really reduce the strength with shift F.
Let's see what I can do here if I just begin sculpting it's kind of hard to see isn't it.
Let's come over here to the properties panel by pressing in and let's click on shading.
Now there should be a feature here or a checkbox called madcap but I don't see it because I'm in textured
view.
I need to switch from textured to solid view.
And now I can see a feature called matte cap and what this will do is just change the look of your scene.
It's applied a different kind of material to our scene and this is just really for viewing purposes.
So we can kind of see what we're doing here.
We could select this one or if we click on this sphere we can select any one of these.
These aren't actual materials that you'd see in a rendered scene.
These are materials just to help you work when you're sculpting.
So I'm going to click this it's still not given me what I want to see.
Let's try something like this.
What I'm trying to do is find a material that will allow me to see what I'm doing a little better.
This one's pretty good.
I'll try this one.
It may look a little strange but as I said these materials are just to help you see what you're doing
in the viewport.
So press in again and now begin coming back in here and using the sculpt tool to kind of form this object.
And I'm just going to begin to sculpt around the columns and bring that bring that floor up a bit.
So it kind of molds around the objects here.
I kind of want to make sure the place where the mech is going to land is fairly flat.
I don't want to do too much there.
The next thing I could try is to add a texture to this so if I come down here to texture and click on
new.
Now if I come over here to the materials panel I can see my sand material on the floor here I'm going
to come over here to the texture panel and now I can see that texture I created over here so I could
call this sand as well and that will update over here.
Now I would need to choose what type of texture I'm going to use for this particular brush I'll choose
type and for this maybe choose noise texture.
And when we go I'll switch back to my solid views so I can see the matte cap.
I'll adjust the brush size maybe like this and I'll come in here and just begin lightly creating some
texture around here.
Right something like that.
I'm going to switch over to my camera by pressing the zero key and then I'll go ahead and switch over
to render it and see if we can see anything.
So I'm seeing a little bit of texture in here.
Now we'll continue sculpting on the coffin and the stairs here.
Up next.